In some rare cases,
you might require parts of your web application to have
different authentications or authorization strategy.
For example, for requests to /portfolio,
the user authenticate with basic, but to admin,
it's form or perhaps even digest.
Now to achieve this,
we simply add an additional class that extends the
WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter.
Here we can define the request matcher.
This configuration is form as, by default, it's any request.
Here we can say all requests to admin will go
through this security configuration,
and now we can define the authorization strategy to be form
authentication only and require that all users are
authenticated and have the role of admin.
Now when we add a new class that extends the
WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter to the Spring application context,
in this case I'm using the Configuration annotation to achieve this,
behind the scenes,
Spring configures a new filter chain with the DelegatingFilterProxy.
Now the DelegatingFilterProxy will iterate through all the available filter
chains to see which one deals with the particular request.
Hence, it needs to know two things,
the order it should evaluate this filter chain relative
to the others and the request matcher.
Now by default,
the order of the WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter is 100, and you
cannot have two filter chains with the same order.
So we will make the admin one 99 using the Order annotation.
This means it will be evaluated first.
This is important as our original implementation does not specify a matcher.
Hence, by default, it will match all requests.
Hence, our admin filter would never get evaluated if it had a higher order.
Now if we restart and put a breakpoint back into our FilterChainProxy,
you can see that we now have four filter chains.
The first two are ignoring the CSS and webjars.
The second is our new admin configuration.
You can see the request matcher is for requests to /admin,
while our last one is the original configuration,
which catches everything. And you can see the admin filter chain has
the form, while the last filter chain has basic.
Now I'm getting a little tired of copying and pasting the
password each time the application restarts, so next, let's configure our own test users.